Welcome back.
Now you just watched a video on the folder structure of React and you might be wondering.
Hold on a second, Andre.
I see something a little bit different than in your video.
Well, if that's the case, it means that you installed React 18 or higher depending on when you're
watching this video.
So I wanted to make a quick video to show you the process of how, as libraries change, you want to
stay on top of it.
Now we actually have a couple of videos and exercises in the section towards the end where I show you
how to upgrade your React app, and we actually upgrade everything to the latest version of React and
show you the minor changes.
But just in case you have questions right now, again, we're going to get to it later in the course.
But let me just give you a small snippet on how, as a developer, you want to stay on top of changes
of the libraries that you're using in this case, react.
So I've actually prepared for you two things.
One is what you just saw in the previous video.
With the React on the Render of our Friends app, we have the React strict mode and the document get
by ID root on the left hand side.
I just ran a Create React App Command.
And got this, which depending on when you're watching the video, you might have this version versus
this version facing the video.
So why the differences?
The key is in the package JSON file.
Again, if we look at the package JSON file on the right hand side, we have this React version.
And then on the left hand side, we see that we have a React version that is 18 or higher, and that's
why there's a difference.
So what I can do is go to the documentation website, the React JS documentation and see that right
here.
How to upgrade to React 18 Well, in React 18, the major change that we really care about is this updates
to client rendering APIs.
Again, this is something that we're going to practice in this section where you get to read the docs,
see how you can upgrade your projects and practice that muscle.
But you see here that react dom their render is no longer supported in React 18.
Use create root instead until you switch the new API, your app will behave as if it's running.
React 17.
It's telling us that we can no longer use React Dom.
To render, we need to use create root.
So let's test our assumption.
All right, so let's test this out.
Let's say that I copied the old way of doing it.
So it's telling me, react, dom, die.
Render no longer exists.
But what if I just replace it over here like we had it before and run this with react 18 or higher?
If I do MP m start and this is a freshly newly created create react app command.
So it's just my app with React version 18 or higher if I do MP am start.
I get nothing.
And it says Over here.
Hey, look at that.
Dot render is not a function.
All right.
So exactly what we thought is no longer supported.
So the only change that we really care about and again, we're going to have an exercise to update the
code base later in this section is we see that we no longer use react dom render.
Instead we do something called create root.
And inside of this function we do the document get element by ID, which is exactly what we do here.
And then that after we create the root.
Right here.
That's when we can do the dot render.
So technically, we can just do this as well if we want it to.
So if I don't even declare a variable and I just do dot render, this should work.
Let me test it out.
Look at that.
Everything works as expected.
Again, this is just important for you to realize that libraries are constantly updating.
So your job as a developer, as a smart developer, is to always be on top of your game.
And we'll work on those exercises of updating our code bases throughout the rest of the course.
Easy peasy.
I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.